wiki_main_en.md, before:

# Wiki

Switch to Other Languages: [繁體中文（香港）](wiki_main_zh.md)

## Headers (in Alphabetical Order)
- [all.h](wiki/all_en.md): all elements in Lau CPP Library
- [exception.h](wiki/exception_en.md): all exceptions in Lau CPP Library
- [file_data_structure.h](wiki/file_data_structure_en.md): all data
  structures based on disk storage in Lau CPP Library
- file_double_unrolled_linked_list.h: the class
  [`FileDoubleUnrolledLinkedList`](wiki/file_double_unrolled_linked_list_en.md)
- file_unrolled_linked_list.h: the class
  [`FileUnrolledLinkedList`](wiki/file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md)
- priority_queue.h: the class [`PriorityQueue`](wiki/priority_queue_en.md)
- sparse_table.h: the class [`SparseTable`](wiki/sparse_table_en.md)
- token_scanner.h: the class [`TokenScanner`](wiki/token_scanner_en.md)
- [type_trait.h](wiki/type_trait_en.md): all the type traits in Lau CPP Library
- [utility.h](wiki/utility_en.md): some useful tools to boost efficiency
- vector.h: the class [`Vector`](wiki/vector_en.md)

## classes (in Alphabetical Order)
- [EmptyContainer](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate this is an empty container
- [Exception](wiki/exception_en.md): a base class dedicated for exceptions
- [FileDoubleUnrolledLinkedList](wiki/file_double_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a double key map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled
  linked list
- [FileUnrolledLinkedList](wiki/file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled linked list
- [InvalidArgument](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate there is an invalid argument
- [InvalidIterator](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate this is an invalid iterator
- [OutOfRange](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate that the operation is out of
  range
- [PriorityQueue](wiki/priority_queue_en.md): a queue that pops elements in the
  order of priority
- [RuntimeError](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate a runtime error occurs
- [SparseTable](wiki/sparse_table_en.md): a sparse table that preprocess data
  to boost the efficiency of repeatable contribution questions
- [TokenScanner](wiki/token_scanner_en.md): scan and separate the token(s) of
  an input string
- [Vector](wiki/vector_en.md): linear container (dynamic array)

## Functions (in Alphabetical Order)
- [PartialMatchTable](wiki/algorithm_en.md): calculate the partial match table
  for KMP algorithm (in `algorithm.h` header file)
- [StringMatching](wiki/algorithm_en.md): match two string (with KMP algorithm)
  (in `algorithm.h` header file)
- [StringMatchingWithPartialMatchTable](wiki/algorithm_en.md):
  match the string with a processed partial table (in `algorithm.h` header file)

Commit message:

docs: pair and key value pair

wiki_main_en.md, after:

# Wiki

Switch to Other Languages: [繁體中文（香港）](wiki_main_zh.md)

## Headers (in Alphabetical Order)
- [all.h](wiki/all_en.md): all elements in Lau CPP Library
- [exception.h](wiki/exception_en.md): all exceptions in Lau CPP Library
- [file_data_structure.h](wiki/file_data_structure_en.md): all data
  structures based on disk storage in Lau CPP Library
- file_double_unrolled_linked_list.h: the class
  [`FileDoubleUnrolledLinkedList`](wiki/file_double_unrolled_linked_list_en.md)
- file_unrolled_linked_list.h: the class
  [`FileUnrolledLinkedList`](wiki/file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md)
- priority_queue.h: the class [`PriorityQueue`](wiki/priority_queue_en.md)
- sparse_table.h: the class [`SparseTable`](wiki/sparse_table_en.md)
- token_scanner.h: the class [`TokenScanner`](wiki/token_scanner_en.md)
- [type_trait.h](wiki/type_trait_en.md): all the type traits in Lau CPP Library
- [utility.h](wiki/utility_en.md): some useful tools to boost efficiency
- vector.h: the class [`Vector`](wiki/vector_en.md)

## classes (in Alphabetical Order)
- [EmptyContainer](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate this is an empty container
- [Exception](wiki/exception_en.md): a base class dedicated for exceptions
- [FileDoubleUnrolledLinkedList](wiki/file_double_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a double key map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled
  linked list
- [FileUnrolledLinkedList](wiki/file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled linked list
- [InvalidArgument](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate there is an invalid argument
- [InvalidIterator](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate this is an invalid iterator
- [KeyValuePair](wiki/key_value_pair_en.md): a pair of key and value
- [OutOfRange](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate that the operation is out of
  range
- [Pair](wiki/pair_en.md): a pair of two elements
- [PriorityQueue](wiki/priority_queue_en.md): a queue that pops elements in the
  order of priority
- [RuntimeError](wiki/exception_en.md): indicate a runtime error occurs
- [SparseTable](wiki/sparse_table_en.md): a sparse table that preprocess data
  to boost the efficiency of repeatable contribution questions
- [TokenScanner](wiki/token_scanner_en.md): scan and separate the token(s) of
  an input string
- [Vector](wiki/vector_en.md): linear container (dynamic array)

## Functions (in Alphabetical Order)
- [PartialMatchTable](wiki/algorithm_en.md): calculate the partial match table
  for KMP algorithm (in `algorithm.h` header file)
- [StringMatching](wiki/algorithm_en.md): match two string (with KMP algorithm)
  (in `algorithm.h` header file)
- [StringMatchingWithPartialMatchTable](wiki/algorithm_en.md):
  match the string with a processed partial table (in `algorithm.h` header file)
