wiki/all_en.md, before:

# lau/all.h

Switch to Other Languages: [繁體中文（香港）](all_zh.md)

The `lau/all.h` header file includes all the elements in Lau CPP Library.

## classes (in Alphabetical Order)
- [EmptyContainer](exception_en.md): indicate this is an empty container
- [Exception](exception_en.md): a base class dedicated for exceptions
- [FileDoubleUnrolledLinkedList](file_double_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a double key map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled
  linked list
- [FileUnrolledLinkedList](file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled linked list
- [InvalidArgument](exception_en.md): indicate there is an invalid argument
- [InvalidIterator](exception_en.md): indicate this is an invalid iterator
- [OutOfRange](exception_en.md): indicate that the operation is out of
  range
- [RuntimeError](exception_en.md): indicate a runtime error occurs
- [SparseTable](sparse_table_en.md): a sparse table that preprocess data to
  boost the efficiency of repeatable contribution questions
- [TokenScanner](token_scanner_en.md): scan and separate the token(s) of
  an input string
- [Vector](vector_en.md): linear container (dynamic array)

## Functions (in Alphabetical Order)
- [`PartialMatchTable`](algorithm_en.md): calculate the partial match table
  for KMP algorithm
- [`StringMatching`](algorithm_en.md): match two string (with KMP algorithm)
- [`StringMatchingWithPartialMatchTable`](algorithm_en.md):
  match the string with a processed partial table

Commit message:

add: the wiki of priority queue

wiki/all_en.md, after:

# lau/all.h

Switch to Other Languages: [繁體中文（香港）](all_zh.md)

The `lau/all.h` header file includes all the elements in Lau CPP Library.

## classes (in Alphabetical Order)
- [EmptyContainer](exception_en.md): indicate this is an empty container
- [Exception](exception_en.md): a base class dedicated for exceptions
- [FileDoubleUnrolledLinkedList](file_double_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a double key map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled
  linked list
- [FileUnrolledLinkedList](file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md):
  a map on disk storage using the data structure called unrolled linked list
- [InvalidArgument](exception_en.md): indicate there is an invalid argument
- [InvalidIterator](exception_en.md): indicate this is an invalid iterator
- [OutOfRange](exception_en.md): indicate that the operation is out of
  range
- [PriorityQueue](priority_queue_en.md): a queue that pops elements in the
  order of priority
- [RuntimeError](exception_en.md): indicate a runtime error occurs
- [SparseTable](sparse_table_en.md): a sparse table that preprocess data to
  boost the efficiency of repeatable contribution questions
- [TokenScanner](token_scanner_en.md): scan and separate the token(s) of
  an input string
- [Vector](vector_en.md): linear container (dynamic array)

## Functions (in Alphabetical Order)
- [`PartialMatchTable`](algorithm_en.md): calculate the partial match table
  for KMP algorithm
- [`StringMatching`](algorithm_en.md): match two string (with KMP algorithm)
- [`StringMatchingWithPartialMatchTable`](algorithm_en.md):
  match the string with a processed partial table
