wiki/file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md, before:

# lau::FileUnrolledLinkedList
included in header `lau/file_unrolled_linked_list.h` and
`lau/file_data_structure.h`.

```c++
namespace lau {
template<class KeyType, class ValueType>
class FileUnrolledLinkedList;
} // namespace lau
```

This template class is intended to preform as a key map list on disk
storage that can keep the data even if the program is closed. This class
allows you to store and access data in programs that might be closed and
opened for several times.  It uses the data structure called unrolled linked
list to reduce the time consumption on accessing and writing.  Garbage
collection is also available in this class.

<span id="Notice">Notice:</span>
1. The key type **must** have valid operator< and operator==.
2. The key and value types **must** have default constructor and trivial
   move and copy constructor.
3. This class cannot create a file itself, so **always** create the file before
   using the class.
4. The file that is used to store data **must** be either empty or storing the
   same kind of key-value pair.
5. Writing data of the same file in other classes is **undefined behaviour**!
   Always avoid it!

## Overview
```c++
namespace lau {
template<class KeyType, class ValueType>
class FileUnrolledLinkedList {
public:
    // Types
    typedef long Ptr;
    typedef long SizeT;
    struct Node {
        KeyType   key;
        ValueType value;
    };

    // Constructors
    explicit FileUnrolledLinkedList(const char* fileName, SizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;
    explicit FileUnrolledLinkedList(const std::string& fileName, SizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;
    FileUnrolledLinkedList(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;
    FileUnrolledLinkedList(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;

    // Assignment Operators
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;

    // Destructor
    ~FileUnrolledLinkedList() = default;

    // Modifiers
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& Clear();
    bool Erase(const KeyType& key);
    bool Insert(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);
    bool Modify(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);

    // Operation
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& Flush();

    // Capacity
    [[nodiscard]] bool Empty();

    // Lookup
    [[nodiscard]] bool Exist(const KeyType& key);
    [[nodiscard]] ValueType Get(const KeyType& key);
    [[nodiscard]] ValueType* GetWithPointer(const KeyType& key);

    // Traversal
    std::vector<Node> Traverse();
};
} // namespace lau
```

## Member Type
- `Ptr`: `long`, the type of file pointers
- `SizeT`: `long`, the type of size
- `Node`: a `struct` making the key-value pair
    - `keyType key`
    - `ValueType value`

## Member Functions
- [(constructors)](#Constructors)
- [`operator=`](#operator=)
- (destructors)

### Modifiers
- [`Clear`](#Clear): clear all the data
- [`Erase`](#Erase): erase the corresponding key-value pair
- [`Insert`](#Insert): insert a new key-value pair
- [`Modify`](#Modify): modify the value of an existing key-value pair

### Operation
- [`Flush`](#Flush): synchronize with the underlying storage device

### Capacity
- [`Empty`](#Empty): tell whether the list is empty

### Lookup
- [`Exist`](#Exist): check whether a node with a certain key exists
- [`Get`](#Get): get the value of a key
- [`GetWithPointer`](#GetWithPointer): get the point of the value of a key

### Traversal
- [`Traverse`](#Traverse): traverse the list

## Details
### <span id="Data_Structure">Data Structure: Unrolled Linked List</span>
The data structure called unrolled linked list have a $O\left(\sqrt{n}\right)$
time complexity by using a linked list of arrays.  In this class, the linked
list is a doubly linked list.

Time complexity:
- Accessing: $O\left(\sqrt{n}\right)$
- Modifying: $O\left(\sqrt{n}\right)$
- Searching: $O\left(\sqrt{n}\cdot\log n\right)$

### <span id="Constructors">Constructors</span>
- `explicit lau::FileUnrolledLinkedList(const char* fileName, lau::FileUnrolledLinkedListSizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;`
    - Construct the list that is linked to the file with `fileName`.  Please
      **make sure** that this file **does exist**, or **undefined behaviour**
      will be encountered.
    - The number of array members is set as `nodeSize`.
    - Then it will check whether this file is empty or not.  If it is empty,
      a header will be created. If it isn't empty, then header will be loaded.
      For the sake of compatibility, the size of array might be set according
      to the header.  Therefore, the node size may not be `nodeSize`.
    - Please also read the [notice](#Notice) to avoid unexpected situation.

- `explicit FileUnrolledLinkedList(const std::string& fileName, SizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;`
    - Construct the list that is linked to the file with `fileName`.  Please
      **make sure** that this file **does exist**, or **undefined behaviour**
      will be encountered.
    - The number of array members is set as `nodeSize`.
    - Then it will check whether this file is empty or not.  If it is empty,
      a header will be created. If it isn't empty, then header will be loaded.
      For the sake of compatibility, the size of array might be set according
      to the header.  Therefore, the node size may not be `nodeSize`.
    - Please also read the [notice](#Notice) to avoid unexpected situation.

- `FileUnrolledLinkedList(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;`
    - Construct the class with a rvalue.

- `FileUnrolledLinkedList(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;`
  - Since opening the same file in two place will cause undefined behaviour,
    the copy constructor is explicitly set invalid.

### <span id="operator=">`operator=`</span>
- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;`
  - See details about [constructors](#Constructors) for more information.

- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;`
  - See details about [constructors](#Constructors) for more information.

### <span id="Clear">Clear</span>
- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& Clear();`
  - Clear all the data in the unrolled linked list

### <span id="Erase">Erase</span>
- `bool Erase(const KeyType& key);`
  - Erase the corresponding key-value pair of the input key.
  - If there exists such a node, this function will erase the pair and return
    true;
  - If there is no such nodes, then it will abort this operation and return
    false.

### <span id="Insert">Insert</span>
- `bool Insert(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);`
  - Insert a new key-value pair
  - If there is no such nodes with the same key (then this operation is
    successful), this function will return true;
  - If there exist a node with exactly the same key, it will abort this
    insert operation and return false.

### <span id="Modify">Modify</span>
- `bool Modify(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);`
  - Modify the value of an existing key-value pair.
  - If there exists such a node with the input key (both must match), this
    function will modify the value of such node and return true;
  - If there is no such nodes, then it will abort this operation and return
    false.

### <span id="Flush">Flush</span>
- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& Flush();`
  - Writes uncommitted changes to make everything in the buffer stored in the
    file.
  - See [more details](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/io/basic_ostream/flush)
    about `std::fstream::flush()` that this function uses.

### <span id="Empty">Empty</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] bool Empty();`
  - Tell whether the list is empty.

### <span id="Exist">Exist</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] bool Exist(const KeyType& key);`
  - Check whether there exists a node with a certain key or not.
  - If a node is found existing, this node will be cached, so don't worry
    that using `Exist` and `Get`  member functions together will waste time.
    It's recommended to use `Exist` first to check whether such node exists
    and then use `Get` member function to get the value of the node.

### <span id="Get">Get</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] ValueType Get(const KeyType& key);`
  - Get the corresponding value of a certain key.
  - If there is no such node, it will return the default value (using the
    default constructor).
  - To avoid the case of not existing such a node, it's advisable to use
    `Exist` member function before using this function.  In this procedure,
    finding the node will only happen once.  View
    [`Exist` member function](#Exist) for more detail.

### <span id="GetWithPointer">GetWithPointer</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] ValueType* GetWithPointer(const KeyType& key);`
  - Get the point of the value of a certain key.
  - If the node doesn't exist, a nullptr will be returned instead.
  - To avoid memory leak, if the function doesn't return a nullptr, always
    free the memory (by using `delete` operator) whenever you don't need it.

### <span id="Traverse">Traverse</span>
- `std::vector<Node> Traverse();`
  - Get all the key-value pair in the list.
  - Return a `std::vector<lau::FileUnrolledLinkedList::Node>` containing
    all the Nodes in the list.

Commit message:

modify: the wiki to be more detailed

wiki/file_unrolled_linked_list_en.md, after:

# lau::FileUnrolledLinkedList
included in header `lau/file_unrolled_linked_list.h` and
`lau/file_data_structure.h`.

```c++
namespace lau {
template<class KeyType, class ValueType>
class FileUnrolledLinkedList;
} // namespace lau
```

This template class is intended to preform as a key map list on disk
storage that can keep the data even if the program is closed. This class
allows you to store and access data in programs that might be closed and
opened for several times.

This class uses the data structure called unrolled linked list to reduce
the time consumption on accessing and writing.  For more details, please
go to [the introduction part of the unrolled linked list](#Data_Structure).

Garbage collection is also available in this class.

<span id="Notice">Notice:</span>
1. The key type **must** have valid operator< and operator==.
2. The key and value types **must** have default constructor and trivial
   move and copy constructor.
3. This class cannot create a file itself, so **always** create the file before
   using the class.
4. The file that is used to store data **must** be either empty or storing the
   same kind of key-value pair.
5. Writing data of the same file in other classes is **undefined behaviour**!
   Always avoid it!

## Overview
```c++
namespace lau {
template<class KeyType, class ValueType>
class FileUnrolledLinkedList {
public:
    // Types
    typedef long Ptr;
    typedef long SizeT;
    struct Node {
        KeyType   key;
        ValueType value;
    };

    // Constructors
    explicit FileUnrolledLinkedList(const char* fileName, SizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;
    explicit FileUnrolledLinkedList(const std::string& fileName, SizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;
    FileUnrolledLinkedList(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;
    FileUnrolledLinkedList(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;

    // Assignment Operators
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;

    // Destructor
    ~FileUnrolledLinkedList() = default;

    // Modifiers
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& Clear();
    bool Erase(const KeyType& key);
    bool Insert(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);
    bool Modify(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);

    // Operation
    FileUnrolledLinkedList& Flush();

    // Capacity
    [[nodiscard]] bool Empty();

    // Lookup
    [[nodiscard]] bool Exist(const KeyType& key);
    [[nodiscard]] ValueType Get(const KeyType& key);
    [[nodiscard]] ValueType* GetWithPointer(const KeyType& key);

    // Traversal
    std::vector<Node> Traverse();
};
} // namespace lau
```

## Member Type
- `Ptr`: `long`, the type of file pointers
- `SizeT`: `long`, the type of size
- `Node`: a `struct` making the key-value pair
    - `keyType key`
    - `ValueType value`

## Member Functions
- [(constructors)](#Constructors)
- [`operator=`](#operator=)
- (destructors)

### Modifiers
- [`Clear`](#Clear): clear all the data
- [`Erase`](#Erase): erase the corresponding key-value pair
- [`Insert`](#Insert): insert a new key-value pair
- [`Modify`](#Modify): modify the value of an existing key-value pair

### Operation
- [`Flush`](#Flush): synchronize with the underlying storage device

### Capacity
- [`Empty`](#Empty): tell whether the list is empty

### Lookup
- [`Exist`](#Exist): check whether a node with a certain key exists
- [`Get`](#Get): get the value of a key
- [`GetWithPointer`](#GetWithPointer): get the point of the value of a key

### Traversal
- [`Traverse`](#Traverse): traverse the list

## Details
### <span id="Data_Structure">Data Structure: Unrolled Linked List</span>
The data structure called unrolled linked list have a $O\left(\sqrt{n}\right)$
time complexity by using a linked list of arrays.  In this class, the linked
list is a doubly linked list.

Time complexity:
- Accessing: $O\left(\sqrt{n}\right)$
- Modifying: $O\left(\sqrt{n}\right)$
- Searching: $O\left(\sqrt{n}\cdot\log n\right)$

### <span id="Constructors">Constructors</span>
- `explicit lau::FileUnrolledLinkedList(const char* fileName, lau::FileUnrolledLinkedListSizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;`
    - Construct the list that is linked to the file with `fileName`.  Please
      **make sure** that this file **does exist**, or **undefined behaviour**
      will be encountered.
    - The number of array members is set as `nodeSize`.
    - Then it will check whether this file is empty or not.  If it is empty,
      a header will be created. If it isn't empty, then header will be loaded.
      For the sake of compatibility, the size of array might be set according
      to the header.  Therefore, the node size may not be `nodeSize`.
    - Please also read the [notice](#Notice) to avoid unexpected situation.

- `explicit FileUnrolledLinkedList(const std::string& fileName, SizeT nodeSize = 500) noexcept;`
    - Construct the list that is linked to the file with `fileName`.  Please
      **make sure** that this file **does exist**, or **undefined behaviour**
      will be encountered.
    - The number of array members is set as `nodeSize`.
    - Then it will check whether this file is empty or not.  If it is empty,
      a header will be created. If it isn't empty, then header will be loaded.
      For the sake of compatibility, the size of array might be set according
      to the header.  Therefore, the node size may not be `nodeSize`.
    - Please also read the [notice](#Notice) to avoid unexpected situation.

- `FileUnrolledLinkedList(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;`
    - Construct the class with a rvalue.

- `FileUnrolledLinkedList(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;`
  - Since opening the same file in two place will cause undefined behaviour,
    the copy constructor is explicitly set invalid.

### <span id="operator=">`operator=`</span>
- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(FileUnrolledLinkedList&&) noexcept;`
  - See details about [constructors](#Constructors) for more information.

- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& operator=(const FileUnrolledLinkedList&) = delete;`
  - See details about [constructors](#Constructors) for more information.

### <span id="Clear">Clear</span>
- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& Clear();`
  - Clear all the data in the unrolled linked list

### <span id="Erase">Erase</span>
- `bool Erase(const KeyType& key);`
  - Erase the corresponding key-value pair of the input key.
  - If there exists such a node, this function will erase the pair and return
    true;
  - If there is no such nodes, then it will abort this operation and return
    false.

### <span id="Insert">Insert</span>
- `bool Insert(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);`
  - Insert a new key-value pair.
  - If there is no such nodes with the same key (then this operation is
    successful), this function will return true;
  - If there exist a node with exactly the same key, it will abort this
    insert operation and return false.

### <span id="Modify">Modify</span>
- `bool Modify(const KeyType& key, const ValueType& value);`
  - Modify the value of an existing key-value pair.
  - If there exists such a node with the input key (both must match), this
    function will modify the value of such node and return true;
  - If there is no such nodes, then it will abort this operation and return
    false.

### <span id="Flush">Flush</span>
- `FileUnrolledLinkedList& Flush();`
  - Writes uncommitted changes to make everything in the buffer stored in the
    file.
  - See [more details](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/io/basic_ostream/flush)
    about `std::fstream::flush()` that this function uses.

### <span id="Empty">Empty</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] bool Empty();`
  - Tell whether the list is empty.

### <span id="Exist">Exist</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] bool Exist(const KeyType& key);`
  - Check whether there exists a node with a certain key or not.
  - If a node is found existing, this node will be cached, so don't worry
    that using `Exist` and `Get`  member functions together will waste time.
    It's recommended to use `Exist` first to check whether such node exists
    and then use `Get` member function to get the value of the node.

### <span id="Get">Get</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] ValueType Get(const KeyType& key);`
  - Get the corresponding value of a certain key.
  - If there is no such node, it will return the default value (using the
    default constructor).
  - To avoid the case of not existing such a node, it's advisable to use
    `Exist` member function before using this function.  In this procedure,
    finding the node will only happen once.  View
    [`Exist` member function](#Exist) for more detail.

### <span id="GetWithPointer">GetWithPointer</span>
- `[[nodiscard]] ValueType* GetWithPointer(const KeyType& key);`
  - Get the point of the value of a certain key.
  - If the node doesn't exist, a nullptr will be returned instead.
  - Note that modifying the content this pointer is pointing **won't**
    actually modify the contents in this list.
  - To avoid memory leak, if the function doesn't return a nullptr, always
    free the memory (by using `delete` operator) whenever you don't need it.

### <span id="Traverse">Traverse</span>
- `std::vector<Node> Traverse();`
  - Get all the key-value pair in the list.
  - Return a `std::vector<lau::FileUnrolledLinkedList::Node>` containing
    all the Nodes in the list.
